# Determine Master Replacement Order:
The first step in replacing masters is determining the correct order in which to replace them - if you replace them in the wrong order, you risk exhibitor outages because different zk instances will have a non-matching server-id to server mapping.  
Here's the key point: we want to replace masters one at a time, following these three rules:

* The zk server id order should match that generated by the installation script
* The zk server id for a given IP server should never change
* No two servers should have non-matching zk server ids for a given server

Every time you run the node upgrade script, a new order is generated - we don't want this order to ever change, aside from the one node we're changing at that time.

*Note that if you replace masters out of the above order, the cluster will eventually recover, but you will have multiple outages until the cluster settles.*

Exhibitor uses python's 'sort' function to determine the order it will use for zk; this does a raw ASCII sort, disregarding the IP address format).

*(The code used to generate this list is viewable in the calculate_exhibitor_static_ensemble command in the gen/calc.py file in the Github repository dcos/dcos:  https://github.com/dcos/dcos/blob/master/gen/calc.py#L465)*

1.	Determine the correct zookeeper order for the current list of IPs

2.	Determine the correct zookeeper order for the new list of IPs

3.	Choose a master to replace that is in the same position in both the new list and old list, such that replacing it will not disrupt the order (i.e., after replacing it and generating a new list, the list will still be in order).  There may be multiple options here - any of them are fine, as long as they don't violate this rule.

4.	Repeat step C until you come up with a valid order of masters to replace.


Assume we're replacing IPs:: 10.10.0.236, 100.10.0.66, 10.10.0.158, 100.10.0.158, 10.10.0.149
with these IPs: 100.10.0.85, 100.10.0.147, 10.10.0.230, 10.10.0.184, 10.10.0.233
Then you're starting with these zk server ids (as determined by python sort; note that  '100.10.0.66' comes after '100.10.0.158' because '6' is after '1', and that '100.10.0.158' comes after '10.10.0.236' because '.' comes before '0' lexically, i.e., following ASCII character codes):

```
1: 10.10.0.149
2: 10.10.0.158
3: 10.10.0.236
4: 100.10.0.158
5: 100.10.0.66
```

and moving to:

```
1: 10.10.0.184
2: 10.10.0.230
3: 10.10.0.233
4: 100.10.0.147
5: 100.10.0.85
```

We can't yet replace master 1, because that would put 1 and 2 out of lexical order:

```
1: 10.10.0.184 < - would come after 10.10.0.158, and generate a non-matching zk node id of 2
2: 10.10.0.158 < - would come before 10.10.0.184, and generate a non-matching zk node id of 1
3: 10.10.0.236
4: 100.10.0.158
5: 100.10.0.66
```

We must first replace master 2, because it doesn't break lexical order (10.10.0.230 is after 10.10.0.149 and before 10.10.0.236):

```
1: 10.10.0.149
2: 10.10.0.230 (was 10.10.0.158)
3: 10.10.0.236
4: 100.10.0.158
5: 100.10.0.66
```


We can now replace master 1, because it will no longer break lexical order (10.10.0.184 is before the new 10.10.0.230):


```
1: 10.10.0.184
2: 10.10.0.230
3: 10.10.0.236
4: 100.10.0.158
5: 100.10.0.66
```

And so forth.  After this, we can replace masters 3, 4, and 5, because this order will not change any zk server IDs.

A Python (2) script to achieve this can be found at https://github.com/justinrlee/dcos-toys/blob/master/master-replacement-order/order.py (Python 2 is used instead of 3 because it's readily available on all *nix systems)